Object Oriented Programming in C++


*Object-oriented programming – As the name suggests uses objects in programming. 
Object-oriented programming aims to implement real-world entities like inheritance, hiding, polymorphism, etc. in programming. 

*The main aim of OOP is to bind together the data and the functions that operate on them so that no other part of the code can access this data except that function.

There are some basic concepts that act as the building blocks of OOPs i.e.

Class
Objects
Encapsulation
Abstraction
Polymorphism
Inheritance


--------------------------------------------------------------------
Class
The building block of C++ that leads to Object-Oriented programming is a Class. 
It is a user-defined data type, which holds its own data members and member functions, which can be accessed and used by creating an instance of that class.
A class is like a blueprint for an object. For Example: Consider the Class of Cars. 
There may be many cars with different names and brands but all of them will share some common properties like all of them will have 4 wheels, Speed Limit, Mileage range, etc. 
So here, the Car is the class, and wheels, speed limits, and mileage are their properties.

A Class is a user-defined data type that has data members and member functions.
Data members are the data variables and member functions are the functions used to manipulate these variables together these data members and member functions define the properties and behavior of the objects in a Class.
In the above example of class Car, the data member will be speed limit, mileage, etc and member functions can apply brakes, increase speed, etc.

-------------------------------------------------------------------------

Object
Any entity that has state and behavior is known as an object. For example: chair, pen, table, keyboard, bike etc. It can be physical and logical.

Class
Collection of objects is called class. It is a logical entity.

A Class in C++ is the foundational element that leads to Object-Oriented programming. A class instance must be created in order to access and use the user-defined data type's data members and member functions. An object's class acts as its blueprint. Take the class of cars as an example. Even if different names and brands may be used for different cars, all of them will have some characteristics in common, such as four wheels, a speed limit, a range of miles, etc. In this case, the class of car is represented by the wheels, the speed limitations, and the mileage.

Inheritance
When one object acquires all the properties and behaviours of parent object i.e. known as inheritance. It provides code reusability. It is used to achieve runtime polymorphism.

Sub class - Subclass or Derived Class refers to a class that receives properties from another class.
Super class - The term "Base Class" or "Super Class" refers to the class from which a subclass inherits its properties.
Reusability - As a result, when we wish to create a new class, but an existing class already contains some of the code we need, we can generate our new class from the old class thanks to inheritance. This allows us to utilize the fields and methods of the pre-existing class.
---------------------------------------------------------------
Polymorphism
When one task is performed by different ways i.e. known as polymorphism. For example: to convince the customer differently, to draw something e.g. shape or rectangle etc.

Different situations may cause an operation to behave differently. The type of data utilized in the operation determines the behavior.

Abstraction
Hiding internal details and showing functionality is known as abstraction. Data abstraction is the process of exposing to the outside world only the information that is absolutely necessary while concealing implementation or background information.For example: phone call, we don't know the internal processing.

In C++, we use abstract class and interface to achieve abstraction.

Encapsulation
Binding (or wrapping) code and data together into a single unit is known as encapsulation. For example: capsule, it is wrapped with different medicines.

Encapsulation is typically understood as the grouping of related pieces of information and data into a single entity. Encapsulation is the process of tying together data and the functions that work with it in object-oriented programming. 

Dynamic Binding - In dynamic binding, a decision is made at runtime regarding the code that will be run in response to a function call. For this, C++ supports virtual functions.


Advantage of OOPs over Procedure-oriented programming language
OOPs makes development and maintenance easier where as in Procedure-oriented programming language it is not easy to manage if code grows as project size grows.
OOPs provide data hiding whereas in Procedure-oriented programming language a global data can be accessed from anywhere.
OOPs provide ability to simulate real-world event much more effectively. We can provide the solution of real word problem if we are using the Object-Oriented Programming language.

Why do we need oops in C++?
There were various drawbacks to the early methods of programming, as well as poor performance. The approach couldn't effectively address real-world issues since, similar to procedural-oriented programming, you couldn't reuse the code within the program again, there was a difficulty with global data access, and so on.

With the use of classes and objects, object-oriented programming makes code maintenance simple. Because inheritance allows for code reuse, the program is simpler because you don't have to write the same code repeatedly. Data hiding is also provided by ideas like encapsulation and abstraction.

Why is C++ a partial oop?
The object-oriented features of the C language were the primary motivation behind the construction of the C++ language.

The C++ programming language is categorized as a partial object-oriented programming language despite the fact that it supports OOP concepts, including classes, objects, inheritance, encapsulation, abstraction, and polymorphism.

1) The main function must always be outside the class in C++ and is required. This means that we may do without classes and objects and have a single main function in the application.


It is expressed as an object in this case, which is the first time Pure OOP has been violated.

2) Global variables are a feature of the C++ programming language that can be accessed by any other object within the program and are defined outside of it. Encapsulation is broken here. Even though C++ encourages encapsulation for classes and objects, it ignores it for global variables.










